[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, my name's
Gregg Braden,
and I'd like to welcome you to
this very special presentation
of "Missing Links".
Simulation by design, are we
living in a virtual reality?
In the last episode, we
discovered the simple code
that governs the
rhythms and the cycles
of our everyday lives, the
formula for a fractal pattern.
And while this high-level code
does regulate the beginnings
and the endings of everything
from love and romance
and relationships and careers
to global patterns of innovation
and war and peace, it's within
these higher-level patterns
that we test our
personal limits of power
to discover what's possible
for us in our simulation
and what's not.
In this episode, we're going
to go one step further.
We'll discover the laws
that define those limits
and how to master
them in our lives.
Modern scientists are
pretty much in agreement
that the universe
as we know it today
began with this tremendous
release of energy, a release
that we call the Big Bang.
And the reason that
I'm saying that now
is because the idea
of a finite beginning
and of this tremendous
release of energy,
it coincides beautifully with
the idea of a simulation.
A simulation has a
definite beginning,
and a simulation releases
a tremendous amount
of information, or
energy, into the system.
So if we could go
back to that moment
when that release of energy
happened, if we could go back
within just a few fractions of
a second after the Big Bang,
what would our
universe look like?
What would we see?
Well, scientists tell us that
immediately after the Big
Bang occurred, the entire
universe as we know it today
was compressed into an
unimaginably tiny ball
of energy about the size
of a single green pea.
So if you can think about
this, if you think about all
of the physical matter in the
universe as it is today spread
out, expanded, and complex,
and if you could take out
all of the empty space and
bring all of that matter
back into contact with
itself, the entire universe,
all of the matter in
the entire universe
would occupy the space of
about a single green pea.
And scientists say that, when
the universe was this size,
the heat was tremendous.
They say it was compressed
into a tiny ball
with temperatures estimated
to be about 18 billion million
million million
degrees Fahrenheit.
Then what began to happen
was that the energy began
to expand.
And this is the equivalent
of the beginning
of our simulation.
As the energy
expands, information
expands and begins to take
up more and more space.
The key here is that there was a
point where everything was once
physically connected.
And here's why that's important.
If everything was
once physically
connected at some
point in the past,
what does that mean for the
relationship with that energy
now as it is
dispersed throughout
this huge, vast expanse
that we call the universe?
In other words, because
the energy was once
physically connected, even
though it is no longer,
is the energy still connected?
Are we energetically connected?
Well, there was
an experiment that
was conducted to answer
precisely this question.
And I want to share this
experiment with you now.
It was called the twin
photon experiment.
It was conducted in 1997,
the University of Geneva.
It was reported to over
3,400 journalists, educators,
scientists, and engineers
in more than 40 countries
on Friday, July
25th of that year.
So let me share with you
how this experiment worked.
And we can take the
ideas from the experiment
itself and apply them to
our lives in the simulation
that we're living right now.
So in the experiment,
the scientists
began with a particle of
energy that forms atoms.
It's called a photon.
And they wanted to have
two identical photons,
so they took one and broke it
into two separate photons that
have precisely the
same properties.
They have to because they are
from the same original photon.
This is why they are
called the twin photons.
Once they had two
identical photons,
they placed them into
a specialized device
that was connected to
fiber optic cables that
ran in opposite directions.
From the device, one cable ran
seven miles in one direction.
One cable ran seven miles
in the other direction.
And they took these photons and
they fired them simultaneously
in the two directions so
that when each photon reached
the maximum distance from
the place where it began,
they were 14 miles apart.
But this is where
the experiment began
because, once those photons
were isolated, 14 miles apart,
scientists began to demonstrate
that what happened to one
photon was perceived and was
happening to the other photon
at exactly the same time.
So for example, if they would
change the magnetic charge
on one photon, the magnetic
charge in the other photon
changed as if it were
having the same experience,
as if it were the one
that had been tweaked.
Or if the rotation of one
of the photons was shifted,
the other one
acted as if it were
the one that had been changed.
They were communicating,
and the mystery, the mystery
was, how are they communicating?
And here's why it's a mystery.
Because we're told in
our world of physics
that information can only travel
as fast as the speed of light
and no faster.
All right, so the scientists
were using atomic clocks
to find out how much time lapsed
between the time one photon
was tweaked and when the
other photon responded.
And to their amazement,
what they found
is the amount of time
that lapsed was zero.
There was no time lapse.
The change was instantaneous.
And they said, well,
how can that be?
Because the information must
get from one to the other.
It cannot travel faster
than the speed of light.
How can this be simultaneous?
And this led them
to the understanding
that is relevant for everything
that we're doing here right
now in our simulation.
The photons did not need to
communicate from one place
to another, as
conventional thinking says.
It's a linear way of thinking.
They weren't
communicating, saying,
hey, I just had my
charge changed over here,
and now you need to
change yours over there.
What happened was, even though
they were physically separated,
because they had
once been combined,
they were still connected
on an energetic level.
And this is what the
experiment is showing.
It is called entanglement,
this relationship
is called quantum entanglement.
And what it says to
us is that matter,
once it is physically
connected, remains energetically
connected, even when the space
that separates the matter
is of great distance.
In this case, it was
measured in miles.
So now, scientists took this
understanding, this discovery,
and they began to
look into the universe
and see where else this
entanglement might apply.
And what they found is
that, not only does it
apply on distances as small
as 14 miles, what they found
is that galaxies on one
side of the universe
are actually entangled
with galaxies
on the other side of the
universe, light years distant.
And they said, how can this be?
How can this be possible?
Well, you already
know the answer
because we've shared
this in this program
and we also talked about this
in the first season of "Missing
Links" in greater detail.
What we're now seeing is this.
And this is why I took
a little bit of time
to talk about the Big Bang.
In the beginning, all
of the physical matter
in our universe, in
our known universe,
it was condensed into the
size of that single green pea.
It was connected.
And as the energy
began to expand
and the matter itself
became separate
from other particles of
matter physically, what
the experiment is showing
is that that matter is still
connected energetically.
So when we talk
about a connection
in our lives, when we talk
about us being connected
to other people, and we talk
to trees, to plants,
to insects, to animals,
we connect to other worlds.
Is there a scientific
basis for that connection?
Absolutely, physical matter
once physically connected
remains energetically
connected, even when
it is separated by
tremendous distances.
So this relationship
of entanglement
holds the key to
understanding our relationship
to our virtual world,
to our simulation.
There is a field of energy.
It connects all things
everywhere, and it connects us.
We are part of the field.
We are not separate
from that field.
So if we're going to
master our simulation,
we've got to master the
rules, the laws that
govern entangled
information in this field.
And in the modern world,
we know those laws
as the laws of modern physics.
So to be very clear, I'm going
to make a distinction here
between the fundamental
laws of physics
and what we know as constants
that operate within those laws.
So I know you're all
familiar with constants,
the speed of light, for
example, is a constant.
The speed of sound,
the magnetic field,
Coulomb's law,
Avogadro's number,
atomic mass, these are examples
of constants that operate
within the laws of the field.
And while those
constants are important,
what I'm really
interested in here
are the laws themselves
because those laws
apply to you and to me.
They apply to our lives.
They apply to our emotions.
They apply to our relationships.
They apply to the healing
of our bodies because--
I'm going to invite
you now to think back--
we are energy.
And energy is information.
This information is being
constantly cranked out
through this fractal pattern.
So as we change the way
that we think and feel,
what we're doing
is we're actually
tweaking the mathematics.
We're tweaking that code
that cranks the information.
And this is how we learn about
ourselves and our relationship
to the simulation.
This is going to be
important as we begin
to answer the big questions.
Why do we have this simulation?
And what are we learning?
What are we benefiting from?
And how can we make
our lives better?
How can we make a better world?
And ultimately, where's
this world leading?
All of these questions,
we can only answer them
when we have a firm
understanding of these rules
and the laws that govern the
energy that we're immersed in,
the energy of our experience.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So in 1686, Sir Isaac
Newton, the mathematician,
he formalized the laws of
energy as the modern-day laws
of physics, what we know as
the laws of physics today.
But what Newton
probably didn't know
is that, when he
formalized those laws,
he formalized the description of
how energy moves in our world.
And without even knowing it,
he was identifying the rules
of the simulation
that he was living
and that we are
living right now,
the boundaries of what
it is and what it is not,
what's possible in
our lives and what's
not possible in our lives.
And he was also showing
us what it takes to master
and even transcend those laws to
free ourselves from the limits
that they impose in our lives.
So what are Newton's
laws for the way
that energy moves
in our simulation?
I'm going to share
three fundamental laws.
There are others, but the three
fundamental laws of motion
I'm choosing to share
with you now because it
is the motion of that energy
in our lives in our simulation
that we are directing through
the biology of our bodies.
Remember, what we
found was that,
when we shift our thoughts,
feelings, emotions,
and beliefs, we're changing
the biology of our body.
We're changing the way the
nerves are interacting.
We're changing the way
neurons are hooking up.
And when we do that, it shifts
the chemistry within us,
and that chemistry
influences the world
beyond our physical bodies.
So we are actually
interacting with the program.
We are interacting
with the fractal code
constantly, every moment,
every day of our lives.
I'm not saying that
we do it consciously
or that we know
what we're doing,
but what we are
actually doing is
we are tweaking this fundamental
mathematic code to change
the conditions of
the simulation,
reflecting the changes that
we've made within our lives.
So for that reason,
we're talking
about energy and motion.
And it makes sense to talk
about Newton's laws of motion.
So what are those laws?
Well, the first law of motion
is a very familiar one.
And I'm sure you've
heard of this before.
And I want to read it to
you as a direct quote.
What Newton says is
that, "A body at rest
will remain at rest,
and a body in motion
will remain in motion
unless it is acted
upon by an external force."
OK, that's his words.
So what is he telling us?
Well, he's telling us what
you probably already know.
In our simulation, the
energy of our life,
our relationships, the
state of our health,
it remains constant until
we initiate a change.
In other words, we are
all on a trajectory.
We are all on a course.
And unless something
shifts within us,
that course is going
to remain the same.
When we talked about
this in the last episode
with the fractal
patterns, we can
have a pattern in our lives.
And we think that we
don't like that pattern,
so we change our relationship.
We change our job.
We change our career.
We change the city
where we live.
And we find out that the
same pattern shows up again
and again and again.
If that's true, it's because
of this law of motion.
We have to change
the energy itself
before we're going
to see a change
in those patterns of our lives.
So it is our choice,
within this simulation,
that empowers us to make use of
Newton's first law of motion.
"A body at rest
remains at rest."
Whatever is happening
in your life
right now, think
about your life.
Think about your relationships.
Think about your body,
your health, your career,
the abundance in your
world, your friends,
your family, where you live.
All of those things, they
are energy in motion.
And that motion is
on a trajectory.
All right, if you do nothing,
what this law suggests
is that, within this simulation,
those patterns are pretty much
going to remain constant.
And if you're happy with those
patterns, it's a good thing.
If you're not happy, this law,
this very, very simple law--
it's deceptively simple.
Please do not be deceived by
the simplicity of this law.
Newton had to understand this.
He had to formalize what
we all knew at that time,
and what we now know, is
happening in our lives.
He had to formalize these laws.
And before he
could even do that,
he had to develop the
mathematics, the calculus,
that would allow him to
formalize these laws.
So he made our jobs
very, very easy.
Newton simply formalized
in mathematics
what we see happening
in the world around us.
So please don't be
deceived by the simplicity
of Newton's law of motion.
It is a very, very powerful law.
And it's just the first one.
Newton's second
law of motion says
that, "The force
acting upon an object
is equal to the mass of that
object times its acceleration."
I know it sounds maybe
a little complex.
Let me say it again.
He says that, "The force
acting upon an object
is equal to the mass of that
object times its acceleration."
What he's really
saying is simply this,
that the bigger the
energy is that we
want to change and the faster
that that change is occurring,
the more force it's going to
take to change that energy.
All right, but you
already know that as well.
Think about this in
terms of your own body.
If you are looking for
a healing in your body,
for example, if your body
has an infection, all right,
if it is a big
infection, then you're
going to need something
more than a small dose
of an herb or an
antibiotic typically
to deal with that infection
because the infection is
a pattern of energy.
It is already in motion.
That energy is moving
somewhere, and the bigger
the energy, the bigger the
infection, the more energy
it's going to take
to make that shift.
All right, so this is
what Newton is telling us.
The bigger the energy is
that we want to change
and the faster that change
is already occurring,
the more force it's
going to take to change
that energy in our lives.
Newton's third law of motion
is probably the best known,
and it simply says,
"For every action,
there is an equal and
opposite reaction."
Well, our mothers taught
us this in everyday life.
We know it as what we
call the golden rule.
Do unto others as we would
want them to do unto us.
And what this is
telling us, it simply
implies that what we put
out and how strongly we
put it out is what comes
back to us, the opposite
and the equal reaction.
All right, so this is
important in our lives
because, if we want
to create change,
we've got to do more than
simply think about it.
You know that.
The thinking is where
the change begins,
but we've got to
take that thinking
and create the energy that
reflects that thinking
to shift the patterns of
information in our simulation.
All right, now, these laws, they
may seem very obvious to us,
but what Newton
did was he actually
formalized the physical
laws, once again,
of how the energy in this
simulation is working.
And you think back to
the fractal formula,
the formula that governs
all patterns of energy,
self-replicating.
It's putting us out again
and again and again.
When we make a change in
our lives, what we're doing
is we're changing the variable
that is in that formula.
We are changing what
the c is in the formula
so that we can now
create a new output
and feed it back
into the formula,
reflecting that
change in our lives.
So this is the beauty-- it's
a very, very different way
of thinking.
You know, we think
about the natural world,
and we're conditioned to
think that everything happened
as a result of a natural force.
So the Big Bang happened.
Nobody really knows
exactly why it happened
and that we are the product
of mechanical patterns
of information.
This is a mechanical way
of thinking of the world
and that that pattern simply
continues forever, all right,
but what this is now telling us,
when we think of a simulation,
this is the shift.
We're thinking of a
program that began
and us being part
of that program.
The energy of our lives,
the energy of our thoughts,
feelings, emotions, and
beliefs actually interacting
with the mathematic code
with a fractal formula that
is cranking out the information,
perpetuating the patterns.
So in a very real sense,
we are all programmers.
And what we call
consciousness is the energy
that connects us
with the simulation
and with the world around us.
And as we shift our thoughts,
feelings, emotions, beliefs,
we are reprogramming
that fractal code
so that the energy
around us reflects
those beliefs and our lives.
And this is the basis,
precisely the basis,
for what many ancient
traditions tried to tell us.
And think about this.
You and I are having
this conversation.
Maybe you're having a
conversation with me
in your mind.
I'm speaking to you
directly right now.
We are interacting.
OK, and we're describing
this very complex idea
through contemporary
language, through the language
of science, through the
language of physics,
language of mathematics,
computer science.
But what we know to be
true today-- and let me
ask you a question.
If you understood
everything that we're
talking about right
now but you went back
in time 2,500 years ago, 3,000
years ago, 5,000 years ago,
and you wanted to convey
these ideas to the people
of your time in a
contemporary language,
how would you do that?
What language would you use?
Well, the answer to
that is the basis,
it's the core of
our most cherished
and ancient
spiritual traditions.
Now, I'm going to make
a distinction here
between spirituality
and religion.
The spiritual
traditions are about us,
our relationships, OK, our
relationship to our bodies,
our relationship to one another,
our relationship to the earth,
our relationship to the past,
to the future, to the cosmos,
to God.
OK, spirituality tells us
about our relationships.
Religions came along
at a later time.
Spirituality was there first.
The religions came
along later, and they
wrapped the rules and the
dogma around these fundamental
spiritual principles.
And the result was
that, in many cases,
we began to feel separate from
ourselves, from one another,
from the earth, from the past,
the future, the cosmos, and God
because the rules
created that separation.
So I'm making this distinction
between spirituality
and religion because
the spiritual traditions
of the past, for
example, Hindu traditions
talk about what we call
karma, the laws of karma.
Well, laws of
karma are us living
Newton's laws of
energy and motion
and the consequences, the
energetic consequences,
of the choices that we
make at one point in time
and how those choices
must be balanced out.
We're talking about energy and
information, mathematic codes.
They must balance out just like
you balance out an equation.
So you can think of
our karma and what
we call life circumstances
as part of that big equation.
And when we find
ourselves in need
to balance something that
has happened in our lives,
you can think of it as balancing
the other side of the equation.
Here's the key, in
the old days, we
used to think we have to
balance it through lifetime
after lifetime.
But if you understand
this process,
you can balance that karma in
a heartbeat, in a heartbeat,
because you understand your
relationship to the simulation.
And you understand
your relationship
to those laws of physics.
These fundamental
laws of energy,
they're playing out
each day of our lives.
They're playing out
this very minute
in every relationship
of your life
and every situation that you
face, in every condition that
is unfolding, and you
are finding yourself
in relationship to these laws.
And everything, from the most
joys to the most frightening
experiences, the whole
idea of a simulation
is for those that are
using the simulation
to master the
conditions that they
find themselves experiencing.
All right, we are the people.
This is our
simulation, and we are
living in a world of
energy, information,
and we're creating
the conditions
that we are learning to master.
And as we master those
conditions of our lives,
we master the laws of
the simulation as well.
Now that we've
identified the laws that
govern our virtual
world, we have
everything we need to dive
directly into the deepest
questions of what
our simulation means
to us in our everyday
lives and then discover
powerful new
perspectives regarding
our origin, our history,
our destiny, and our fate.
I want to thank you for
joining me for today's program.
And be sure to tune in
for our next all-new
episode of "Missing Links".
Simulation by design, are we
living in a virtual reality?
[MUSIC PLAYING]